[Music]
what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose we need to
the channel hi my name is Nasir and I'm
now a third year medical student
studying at King's College London
today's video is all about why I study
in for our flocks and I'm not talking
about four hours of half studying a
little bit of procrastinating and
chillin here and there I'm talking about
four hours of productive efficient
studying in a row now usually when
people find out that I study in 4 hour
blocks as opposed to 25 minutes or 1
hour 2 hour even 3 hour blocks
most of them tell me that's not possible
there's no way you can stay focus for
that long you probably aren't efficient
you're probably wondering in your mind
and things like that but honestly I
genuinely study for 4 hours in a row and
I'm motivated and I'm productive and I'm
efficient and I'm gonna explain all of
that in today's video I'm gonna explain
two things one why I study in 4 hour
blocks and 2 how I study in for our
vlogs so let's tackle the why first when
I sit down on my desk over here or in
the library in order to study what is my
goal my goal is to complete as much work
as possible to be as productive and as
efficient as possible now me personally
when I get into the zone for studying I
don't want to leave that zone I don't
want to get up I don't wanna
procrastinate I don't want to change
what it is that I'm doing because I've
already done the most difficult part of
sitting down to study which is to get
into the studying mood and zone and the
more breaks that I take or reasons I
give myself to get up and off of my desk
that's another opportunity for me to
have to get back into the studying zone
which I don't want to do so generally
speaking when I'm studying for exams I
do two four-hour blocks in my day from 9
to 1 and from 3 to 7 and that way I only
have to enter the studying mood 2 times
once at 9 a.m. and once at 1 p.m. now
this is the main reason that I
personally don't use the Pomodoro timer
because every 25 minutes it's basically
giving me an excuse and encouraging me
to check my phone or to chill or to get
up off my desk or whatever which is
inevitably gonna lead to me
procrastinating and doing something for
longer than just 5 minutes one thing
that I really like about my method of
doing to 4 hour blocks in my day is that
I've done pretty much all the work that
I need to do by 7 p.m. now I imagine
doing eight hours of productive and
useful work and also being done by 7
p.m. that leaves so much free time in
order for you to do anything else that
you want that can be exercised
socialising with friends playing video
games making YouTube videos or basically
anything you just give yourself a lot of
free time and still do lots and lots of
work during the day
now I understand obviously different
studying techniques and timetables and
schedules and whatever work for
different people I'm just saying as far
as maximizing efficiency if you condense
all of the work that you have to do into
the beginning part of the day that
leaves a lot of hours at the end of the
day for you to do whatever you want all
right I think I've preached long enough
now about why I really like my four-hour
block method now let me tell you how it
is that I can actually stay focused and
work for four hours in a row I'm gonna
break this down into five key sections
the first is to plan the night before
and what I mean by this is that when I
wake up in the morning and I know that
I'm gonna start studying at 9:00 a.m.
I've already decided exactly what it is
that I'm going to do at 9:00 a.m. which
means that there's no friction or no
time wasted in trying to figure out what
do I need to study what have I done
enough of what is left for me to do etc
etc I've already decided that unplanted
the night before so when I sit down at
8:59 I start exactly at 9:00 and I can
get immediately into the studying zone
that is actually really really key if
you're struggling to get into the study
zone have a predetermined plan of what
it is that you're gonna do during that
time so for example tomorrow at 9 a.m.
I'm going to study for the USMLE exam
which is here so tonight before I go to
sleep I'm going to open this book to the
page that I'm going to be starting on
tomorrow and I'm gonna put a pen inside
of it that way tomorrow when I take this
book which is already laying on my desk
in a nice and convenient place for me to
begin work I can literally flip open to
the page of exactly where I'm going to
start on top of that you can see on my
desktop over here but I'm already gonna
go down to the video that I'm gonna
watch tomorrow morning I'm gonna open it
and it's gonna be ready just waiting for
me to sit down hit play and begin work
section number two don't give yourself a
reason to get up and away from your desk
before I start work at 9:00 a.m. I've
already made my cup of coffee I've got
in a couple of snacks and I've organized
everything around me that I will
possibly need in the next four hours so
that I can minimize the amount of times
that I need to get up and out of my
chair the reason that I do this is
because every time you get up and out of
your chair you're giving yourself
opportunity for distraction and reason
for procrastination for example if I go
to the kitchen I'll make myself a snack
or a drink I'll knock on my sister's
door and ask her what's going on let's
have a chat every time I leave my room
and I leave that studying zone and
studying environment
I'm giving myself reasons and excuses
and opportunities for procrastination
now this is gonna be slightly
controversial I'm sure but I honestly
don't allow myself to get up and out of
my desk until I've done an hour of
studying the thought process that I have
in my mind is not if I haven't been able
to sit down and do productive solid work
for an hour do I really deserve to go
take a break do I really deserve to go
for crostini and fill up my drink and
get more snacks or take some time off no
I need to first do a bunch of productive
work before I can even think about the
idea of getting up and procrastinating
and usually when I push myself to stay
that extra 15 minutes I actually end up
studying for another 30 minutes or 45
minutes or whatever before getting out
of my chair because I want to finish for
example the video that I'm doing or the
section that I'm doing or the page that
I'm writing I just give myself reasons
to continue studying you know I'm almost
done with this section I'm almost done
with this video I'm almost done with
blah blah blah blah blah and I just try
my best to keep myself situated out my
desk you know what now that I say all of
this out loud I'm starting to sound a
little bit crazy but just stay with me
here the point of section number two is
to only get up and off of your desk when
you really need to section number three
is for the love of God just get rid of
your phone your phone is your worst
enemy when it comes to studying time if
you hear any notification if you hear a
buzzing if you even look at your phone
or if you even think of your phone
you're so likely to just without even
thinking reach over and grab it and
check it I'm guilty of doing this all
the damn time and because I'm a human
and I'm prone to checking my phone and
getting all of these addicting
notifications and numbers and messages I
have two ways in order to completely
eliminate my phone from my studying
environment step number one is to put
your phone out of sight if you can't see
your phone you're less likely to think
of it you're less likely to notice it
and you're just less likely to check it
overall step number two is to put your
phone out of reach that creates a huge
barrier you have to now get up and move
in order to get your phone which I know
sounds kind of stupid you're probably
like oh it's just two steps away over
there on the bed but the truth is when
you're sitting down any extra effort or
friction you give yourself in order to
go check your phone you're gonna do it
less often Wow I've been talking a lot
this video
all right section number four is about
giving yourself rewards while you're
studying genuinely no joke probably what
gets me through studying sessions the
most is the idea of rewarding myself
with either something to drink or
something to eat or going out with my
friends or playing video games or
whatever just having these rewards that
I make for myself that I can only unlock
once I've done a certain amount of
studying it's for example like I
mentioned before I literally don't allow
myself to go get a refill of my coffee
or brew a tea or anything like that
until I've done at least an hour of
studying it's just now an ingrained rule
in my head like dude you're not gonna
have coffee or more tea unless you do
more work so you better get that done
first if that's what you want to do my
mentality when it comes to doing for our
blocks is very simple if I work from 0
till 2 hours well then all I have to do
is do the exact same thing that I just
did one more time and I'll be done with
my four-hour block it's the same thing
like when I go for a 10k run if I run
five kilometres in one direction away
from my house well then I kind of have
to run the other five kilometres in the
opposite direction to get back home and
that way when I sit down for a four-hour
block of studying really all I need to
focus on is getting through the next two
hours because once I've done two hours
well then I just have to repeat what
I've already done and I'll be done with
four hours I know it sounds really
simple and it sounds kind of stupid you
guys probably think I'm crazy right now
but if I just do two hours of studying
then I can repeat what I've done and
then I've reached my goal okay and the
fifth and final section is about setting
standards for yourself
for me personally once I've done a
four-hour block of studying I know that
that is something that I am now capable
of and so next time I come to studying
if I if I study for three hours or two
hours then I'm like well this isn't
really as best as I can do this isn't
pushing myself to my maximum efficiency
or capacity I've done a four hour book
before that means that I'm capable of
doing it again and I keep up that
standard and I keep studying for our
blocks because I know that I can reach
that level of capacity and productivity
it's the same thing like once I've done
a ten kilometer run I know that I'm
capable of running ten kilometres and so
I keep running ten kilometres every time
because now that's my new baseline
that's what I'm capable of achieving I
don't like to give myself excuses or
reasons to do something out of lesser
level than what I've done before I feel
like I've done it once I'm capable of
doing that and so I can keep up that
standard now obviously you can probably
see with a slippery slope that comes
along with this line of thinking
I'm not crazy I'm a robot I obviously
have times when I can't study for 4
hours if I follow everything that I'm
saying about 80% of the time then I'm
doing a fantastic job because the other
20% is just real life things happen
things come up you need to change and
you need to be flexible but this is my
line of thinking this is my philosophy
and this is when I try to upkeep as much
as I possibly can okay and that is it I
hope you guys have found this video
useful I hope you've enjoyed it and if
you did please do leave a like on this
video and subscribe to my channel to see
more content from me in the future if
you have any tips for how you like to
study or know something that works very
well for you and would like to share
with the rest of the community please do
so in a comment down below
I love reading and replying to all of
your comments and that is it for me I
will see you guys in the next video
peace
you
what video are we doing to date why I
study in for our blocks let's go